>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
we've seen a lot today.
We cover just the foundations of the PWA
platform, links and discoverability.
We know it's still local host URL.
It's a web URL.
Easy to deploy.
We see that.
Easy to update.
You change the files,
we don't need nothing special.
We are still using the web.
Offline access, we've seen that service
workers is the one that will let us
create that offline access.
How to make an installed icon and
standalone, that's the manifest mainly.
OS integration has to do
also with manifest data.
And performance and UX,
we didn't explain a lot of things today,
but also OS integration,
we cover all the stuff on design and
things that will give you
a better app like experience.
There are much more around PWAs.
Web push notifications, the batch API
that will let you add a little rev,
but it can be a dot on Android or
it can be a number on your icon.
The shortcuts API that will right click
menu to the icon when it's installed.
The share API 2.0, the web share
that will let you share files.
The share target API that will let
your PWA be the one that can open or
receive share from other app.
So then from Instagram, you can share and
the target can be your PWA.
You will receive, you are the target of
a share operation within that device.
File handling, you can be the default
handler for PDF or PNG files and so on.
URL handling, you can create your own
protocol that then will, if you find
a link on an email or something,
can open your app, your native app.
And there are much more.
These are all other APIs that some of
them require you to first have a service
worker, some of them require you to first
have the web app manifest, and so on.
And at Fronted Masters,
I'm not sure if you know that guy.
There is always the same guy there.
Here I have six workshops where you can
continue the conversation with me on PWAs.
On things that they are for
the web platform, but
at least they will help you with
some things such as performance.
So web performance.
Web capabilities, again, if you wanna
use sensors, Bluetooth, geolocation.
Vanilla JavaScript, in case you wanna get
into working directly without frameworks.
Web Storage AP to know more about quotas,
about persistence,
about index dv,
how to work with databases.
Web authentication API is something
that we didn't mention yet, but
you can use face ID or
you can use the finger on Android.
And you can log in users
on PWAs using those APIs.
You can use pass keys on your PWAs.
So you can integrate with the operating
system for logging using passkeys.
And JavaScript in the background,
where we see more on service workers,
we implement push notifications there.
And also we talk about how you can
synchronize data in the background.
And so there are a lot of content, so
you can't get bored actually right here.
>> Learner 1: What do you think
the future of PWAs are for developers?
Is it something that's worth investing in,
like investing time in?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I think that
if you are not investing time in them,
you're not investing time on the web.
Remember, it's just the web.
Let's go back to the first discussion.
Forget about the name PWA,
it's just a web.
It's the DNA of the web.
So let's go back to that idea
of this is the DNA of the web.
So if you care about the web,
if you should be doing website.
If you're doing web apps,
it's just the same.
It's just the installation layer,
the integration with the operating system.
So I think it's still growing and
don't think that this
is something different.
It's not like, I need to learn
React Native, Flutter, or PWAs.
If you're a web developer,
PWAs is part of your DNA.
It's not something different
that you need to learn, okay?
So it's just a design pattern on the web.
>> Learner 2: I had a question.
Just about the Web APK icons.
So it's not like the file
type of the icon itself,
but it's that makes it available or
accessible versus the shortcut icons.
It's just, you need to pass the PWA
criteria and then-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: You need to pass
the PWA criteria and
you need to have a phone with Google Play
services enable, and
the browser should be Chrome first off.
>> Learner 2: Okay, but
if you pass those requirements then-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Then it
should work.
>> Learner 2: That's what should happen.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: If you're using
the emulator and not the real device,
you need to check that your Chrome
is updated inside the emulator,
and also that your your emulator
has Google Play services.
>> Learner 2: Okay.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: If you don't have
that, it will fall back to shortcut.
And by the way, if,
because this is using a server,
it's called the Web APK minting server.
It's minting a Web APK server file.
So if the server is down and it cannot
create the APK, it has a timeout,
it's typically 20 to 30 seconds,
it will fall back to shortcuts.
>> Learner 3: Say I have to
handle user tokens offline and
then reconcile them when back online.
Would your JavaScript in the background
course be a good resource for me?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yes, because
we see the APIs that you need to use to
do that.
If I remember correctly,
at that particular course,
someone asked specifically
about that use case and
I think that I did a long answer
on specifically that question.
So yeah, the answer is yes.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, and again,
if you wanna learn more about everything
that we've seen today,
you also have the Learn PWA course.
But it's actually an ebook, not a course.
It's an interactive ebook where
it gets deeper on most of
the stuff that we cover today and
maybe something else as well, okay?
Just saying that,
that's all I have for you for PWAs.
>> Learners: [APPLAUSE]
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Thank you.